Continuing from The Last Lecture.
So let me just make this back to normal.
Ninety five percent which is what I use on my Mac on Windows.
I use 70 something different.
So what we're going to do now is we're going to do the last part which is the appendix.
K and it's just going to be sent your resume.
If you have a resume that you want to include and then product details as well maybe a brochure and
all the resumes your employees if you want tell your call and you can even have resumes for people that
are part time or consultants.
It just helps to make your product look more therof my goodness rather than a thousand throw now.
Amazing.
OK good.
So here's what we're going to we're going to go back to the Word document I got install this.
This is dope and if you've done this yet on a Mac but it use dark mode.
But I'm recording Mac sales.
OH MY GOD ALONE.
OK.
So here's what we're going to do.
We're going to go down here to the end of the document.
Correct.
And if you were with me during the last lecture you saw that what we did was we turned this document
in from Porcher into landscape mode.
And we did that so our financial statements all appear in landscape mode completely optional.
So here's where we did it.
And I'm showing you all this for a reason.
I mean turn this on and you can see here that I have a section break.
So if I go here double click that section 1 that section to.
So we're going to add another section section 3 and Section 3 is going to look just like Section 1.
So we'll have to insert another section break and recall that we made this wider as well.
We may have to change that back to that in the new section and we want to make sure the new section
continues with the page numbers.
OK so let me scroll down here.
Wow.
And a lot of pages automatically.
Weird.
OK.
I'm going to go back here and we're here to pass.
So here's we're going to we are going to insert a section break so the S.M. new sexual star on the next
page.
So what we're in is we're at a new section right because right now we're Section 2 is in landscape we
want to go back to portrait.
So here's what you do.
You got peer insert and then you go down to break.
And when you put it in the section break.
And we want to be on the next page and on this page on an expert next page.
There you go.
All right.
And this is now Section 3.
And I know because I don't like this that's to this history OK.
Becker now we're into this we're going to make the layout difference allowed here.
And then when going go to orientation.
Go back to portrait and say that's what I'm talking about.
Is that great.
All right.
And then what we'll do is I don't have a header but maybe you do if you just double click and change
it there but the footer here OK.
So it continued with the page numbers.
If it doesn't continue with your page numbers you just click it here go to page number format page number
and you say continue from the previous section if it's finnicky and it doesn't.
Then you start at page 42 or whatever your number is.
I leave it at the pencil.
OK.
Now here's what to do.
I go back to two previous sections so I can get the footer here for page 42.
I mean that nice line that's here.
So I didn't go there.
I don't go there when I go the previous action.
OK hold on sir.
There you got.
OK.
Copy that hit copy I got to go back to where I was next.
No not there not there right here.
And I'm going to paste this in.
Whoops wants to be above here so let me see if I can go above.
I may have to manually do it.
All right.
Manually do it.
So going to drag it up there and it should look good.
Now to use the up and down arrows to make it look perfect.
And let's just go back and make sure it looks good enough.
One two three ok good looks like I found a mistake here too.
Good.
OK.
So we go to next here.
See what this is.
That is it nine inches.
So we can go back now and the header and footer back there previous.
And then I don't know I did that's fine.
And go back here and make it 9.
Don't hit the up or down buttons.
It takes eight million years to get the
seriously.
All right.
Whatever it's going to be you're going to be like that where are you going to be like that.
That's fine.
Can we drag it down here and we're going to go and let's just make sure it looks consistent.
Previous sir good that's good enough.
It's fine.
Actually it's a millimeter off.
But it's fine I'll care.
OK.
And this one got changed as well because it's linked to the previous So I'm not going to say I don't
want you link to the previous anymore.
OK.
And let's see what happens in its
go back here.
This here is
6.4 am going to copy that.
I know it's tedious.
What we're doing here.
But I want to be perfect because this can change your life.
Having a great business plan.
OK.
And this is going to change this right here.
Shape form at that this make sure it didn't change that previous one.
Good good good good good good.
All right I think we're good man.
Let's go back to the previous section work smarter not harder by hitting previous.
Good good good.
OK good.
We're getting there.
Almost done it.
Let's go back to the appendix.
Make sure it works make sure that page numbers are good.
Good.
Great.
Perfect.
That's what I'm talking about OK.
And let's hide all this stuff there.
All right.
No word can be so much fun.
OK so what you can do here if you want is you can paste special your your resume here and if you have
a PTF you can copy the PTF do a screen print so if you're using Windows just click down the corner here
on the start button and then type in the word snip.
And you can use the snip tool or just go to command your search for the word snip tool or even if you
have charm's you can write.
You can right click on Windows 8.
I hope not.
Windows and Windows 7 just so you don't have that.
If you are Windows 8 you can swipe on the right there and grab the Charmes and type snipp and use the
step tool to copy and paste.
If you are using a Macintosh you can hit the command shift 4 button and you take a picture and then
it saves on your desktop.
And so what you do is you go insert pictures OK from file and he grabbed from your desktop and you insert
it here.
The image here OK and just play around the images and make them shadow if you want like we had here
your call whatever.
And for those you that up.
Upgrade to Mojave Mojave.
You pronounce it.
If you're you can command shift 5 and I don't have it on mine.
But no matter Mac.
What happens is you can customize that when you do that screen thing.
This thing here that it will actually copy in your clipboard instead of put it on a desktop or somewhere
else.
So that's what I would do.
I'll put them all in here.
And let's say that we have a couple of resumes here you can write down on a John Smith resume for now
that sounds more foreign for you that way.
Resume full the British accents sound smarter for John Smith good bass good and then you can do a couple
different resumes.
If you have them whatever resume for months go to scar.
Let's in Jozen.
And after you Antron all the resumes here if you scroll the photo in the footer is not perfect.
Words a little finicky this probably won't happen to you but if it does you just kind of copy this and
you can paste it again in here.
I'll leave that up to you though.
And if you want to have a different header use double click and you can change your head around as well.
And sometimes I'd like to have for some I-Reports.
I'd like to put a bottom border here in the header and then you can type in the name of the file.
Here you can see a business plan for every name your company has just typed in here.
That's all just kind of a pretend text and then what you do is you make it italicize and a little bit
smaller as well.
If you want to Casso controls you don't do that.
And then go back here so I would just insert all of your images here.
OK so you go.
Insert image from the desktop or just paste it if it's in the Clipboard.
For all you different employees let's say we only have a couple of employee so obsolete the rest of
them here.
If you want soc error that's then after Scarlet's resume and use insur it in the middle there and make
it nice and white as well so it looks nicely centered and if you want you can.
You can even have a bleed over into the footer just above the number there.
Your call your call I'd like to be consistent Plus just me.
You can have a part time a person's resume here as well.
If you want etc. and then just get rid of it just to make it more simplistic.
And then here you can have your ups.
You can have your marketing materials right below that if you want to paste that indirectly and then
you can always go to 5 or dot com and get somebody to create marketing materials for you if you want
it to.
So after I have this page there we go back in here so I don't read the paragraph marks or customer testimonials
or references and just anything that will help the reader understand you know what you're putting in
here.
You can get rid of it if you don't have it and then just make sure that there is no page at the ends.
Play around with your footer if you want your call and then what you do is and everyone's different
your.
Your document might be long and might be short or whatever but you can scroll up and you'll see how
nicely formatted it is.
See how this here is landscape and then this here is a nice portrait's.
You can send it out if you want your call.
Most look greats looks good.
You'll have more data than yours and mine.
I said Dummy data here for titles and then this is just some of my employees.
If I want I can make these little smaller put all three on one page.
Call it whatever you want it to.
The product image example.
And then you can get it all nicely bound at Kinko's or wherever you are in the world.
I know a FedEx Kinko's is not everywhere and then.
Yeah yeah get a nicely printed you can go.
You can go online to a bunch of places and get it bound as well.
And the reason we spend a bunch of time and don't worry about this you won't see that that gap and if
you might can fix it whatever it is that bothers you whatever doesn't matter and then you'll know what
you'll do is you'll you'll right click on this your contents and update the field and then do it twice
and tell you why in a second because this option comes up and you won't update the entire table.
I mean headings as well as the page numbers and so if we scroll down we see here that everything is
updated for us.
This here.
We just get off there.
That's executive summary from step 3 in the course.
Man team up for in the course it's all context sensitive you can double click and go directly to those
step.
Step 5 in the course of products and services and if you want you can actually.
That's a lot of detail there.
You can break this up and have subheadings like for example if you want a section on pricing.
You could do that as well and make these heading threes.
I shall show you that right now if you want be kind of fun to do so we can do a sub section here on
the go.
Pricing like that.
Once pricing you can move things around if you want is that there is a heading to the scullery.
Here I'll show you how to take it and then we'll make these heading threes.
If you want.
This is completely optional and so I mean just double click to paint brush a few times and will paint
brush paint brush paint brush and then financing is something else and you can even ups.
Bingo here we're done with that and then we go back up here and we repaginate.
I used to be a new word for me.
I know what that means now right here.
You'll see that the pricing is its own kind of subsection it's a heading 2 and 3 needs will be indebted
so you right click go up the field update entire table.
There ya go.
Scroll down.
There you go.
So pricing here has got its own low section.
Let me just get rid of the grey so I can just show you the white side OK.
So that's the section or Step 5.
If we scroll down in a lot of the stuff you won't have right there may be like optional fields you get
rid of like customer survey research or whatever it is and if you new customers or research like I mentioned
before with Survey Monkey markup you want to include that stuff in your appendix as well.
Then we did step 6 was competition.
I think we can go back here and double check on that.
Kolpak here to the top is slick.
Any random page and then it's going to go directly here.
So step six was customer and market.
OK right.
No that's right.
Septic's was a customer.
And in markets where is that do I have that.
You see what happened.
OK Kustra and market for some reason and I'm going to show I'm looking to correct this because this
happens every now and then with Word.
OK.
So this is supposed to be a heading one but it went normal for some reason even though it looks like
adding one.
So I have to go here and select heading once again and then I'm going to repaginate can I think cut
a check and excel there.
But word is finicky and it can do that.
All right.
I've been working with the word for decades now that's how old I am.
All right let's go and see if that works ok it worked.
Great customer.
And market commentary and let's have a clean look here.
Wait.
All right.
That's six.
Is his customer.
Seven is competition.
Let's make sure it's right.
Competition good.
Eight is go to market strategy.
Make sure it's indented properly.
Good eight nine is sales and marketing sales marketing.
And you you might not have sales force structure in Europe and it's fun.
We talked about the 10 is milestones future milestones you might have passed milestones we've talked
about that we've got other and after other we have financials that step 12.
And if you wanted to you could even have subheadings here so you can even have your revenue income's
take forecasts balance sheet cash flow and in separate entries if you want to H1 H2 them in the way
you do that you just kind of DoubleClick here and you put another heading here.
So this year for example you have to this is completely optional.
We can make these h 3s if you wanted to.
And then you could create a new one for cash flow statements I'll show you here.
Completely optional overkilling no cash flow statements statements and you can make this bad boy here
in H2 and I just same for the balance sheet in the state.
If you want and I'm going to update this and show you what it looks like so I am moving around a lot
okay.
So what will happen is we'll have cash flow put in here in other words this will be an H 3 and the H2
will stay here and New-Age to update fields on tire table doesn't doesn't show up you get a right click
again.
And there you go.
Well I don't know why you do that word.
That's the word right.
There you go.
So see here you can do that and do same thing for belge income stay if you want whatever completely
up to you I want to create a for everybody here.
Appendix we got these resumes other documents and whatnot.
So you know what we are done and you want to triple check and obviously make sure it's perfect.
Make sure the formatting is creates a feel like it is mid term paper.
And if you want you can play around with shadows over kilogramme but I try to be a perfectionist shadow
see how that looks.
Whatever.
Probably not but play around with it.
If you if you have time to save it and obviously change the name here to whatever your business plan
is called.
All right.
And we are done with this.
And let's go back here.
Ines let's see we're over here on business plan.
Put click this year.
Wait for it wait for you ready.
You get to click this final box.
But we got to open this up here because I want to watch the number change because I want you to see
the special message that took me years to write for you.
Just getting in.
And there's a lot of data here so taken a second opened up your computer is probably me faster might
have got this editing software stuff open that loading it says loading up here not actually loading.
I just made that text just in case people are wanting it was gone.
All right.
So ready wait for it.
Right now we're showing 92 percent or so 93.
And where is your percent done here on the business plan so click.
Ready.
Three two one
yes.
100 percent there.
See look at this.
You did it and your name is written there too if you entered your name in settings.
You are Harp's done congratulations.
So good job.
Good job.
I hope you enjoyed this.
I have a couple more lectures after this one but if you want to learn how you can tell I enjoy all this
stuff it's a lot of fun.
I love teaching and I love it so I love software as well.
So if you're curious how I made this from scratch you can watch this part here and I always throw what's
called a lower third here when I'm doing post or editing and I can teach them scratch how I made all
of this stuff.
And these are not buttons.
OK.
I want to decode and here these are just images.
That's it.
All right so I will teach you how I made this entire spreadsheet from scratch and hope you learned a
little bit about Excel too and maybe word as well and you enjoyed this.
But thanks again for joining me on this long term.
We've gone through together.
We've had fun.
I certainly did.
And if you want to learn how I made this Excel spreadsheet you can click here and if you're doing the
optional section on presentation slides then you can watch that that lecture which is right after this
one here or on the next part here on presentation slides.
And if you want to look at presentation slides you can actually insert all the slides that that are
made for you that I'll make with you into your appendix.
And if you insert your appendix they'll be 10 different images.
And if you want.
You don't have to actually put all the images on a separate page you can do a couple at a time we show
you actually.
All right.
So if you want to put in your slides as another exhibit and you can skip the rest this lecture if you're
not going to slide but what you do is you go into your appendix and we'll go right here at the end and
then you can hit Control enter and then you can say investor presentation
slides and make sure this here is a Heading to go.
It's great.
All right.
And then what you do is whatever slides that you create and I'll show you how to do it in this lecture
here the presentation slides but what you'll do eventually you'll do a screen print.
And you know how to use screen print if you're using Windows and Mac until you're ready.
But you screen print all the slides in PowerPoint and then paste them directly so I'll give you an example.
And this is not the final one here but we're just kind of working on it right now.
It'll look better in this trust me.
OK so if we grab this that's actually wrong that should be Bill William Gates William I think.
OK.
That's called Dad humor.
So what you do is you could kind of copy it like this and then you can insert it from your desktop or
if you're using Windows you can paste it whatever.
And sometimes Max will paste as well and then you can make these smaller even include you know eight
on one slide here or two on each.
Or S8 not sly.
I see two images on each so I can go copy paste it right there like that.
You can have two per page that sort of thing.
Obviously not the same image you'd have all 10 or you can have 4 per page whatever.
And the way to get rid of this whole image here on the site you can always go to a picture format which
will Peary's like this.
And you go to a crop and then you just kind of go here and pick her up into little bits and then do
the same thing with that one there.
Or if you want to get a little artistic whatever.
And a lot of the backgrounds won't be white in the ones in the templates I give you but you can always
go here.
And then you can put a little shadow of one on one side like we've done before anyway so if you want
to learn more about how to do the presentation slides please watch this part here.
Of course if you want to learn more about Excel then please watch this part of the course.
Thanks.